so let's take a look at this in detail
so in this random surfing model and any
page will assume random surfer would
choose the next page to visit so this is
a small graph here that's of course
oversimplification of the complicated
web but let's say there are four
documents here mighty one d2 d3 and d4
and it's assumed that a random surfer or
random Walker can be on any of these
pages and then the random surfer could
decide to just randomly jump into any
page or follow a link and then visited
the next page so if the random surfer is
at p1 then you know with some
probability that random surfer were four
of the mates now there are two out links
here one is pointing to d3 the other is
pointing to d4 so the random surfer
could pick any of these two to reach d3
and d4 but it also assumes that the the
random surfer
might get bored sometimes so the random
surfer would decide to ignore the actual
links and simply randomly jump to any
page in the web so if it does that it
would be able to reach any of the other
pages even though there's no link
directly from e1 to that page so this is
assumed random surfing more imagining
and random surfer is really doing
surfing like this they only ask you the
question how likely on average the
surfer would actually reach a particular
page in wah-ah t2 or t3 that's the
average of probability of visiting a
particular page and this probability is
precisely what PageRank computes so the
PageRank score of a document that is the
average probability that the sufferer
visits a particular page
now intuitively this would basically
capture the evening account why because
if a page has a lot of in links then it
would have a higher chance of being
visited because there will be more
opportunities of having the sufferer to
follow a link to come to this page and
this is why the random selfie model
actually captures the idea of counting
the innings note that it also considers
the interacting links why because if the
pages that point to you have themselves
a lot of innings that would mean the
random sufferer we're very likely
reaching one of them and therefore it
increases the chance of visiting you so
this is a nice way to capture both
indirect and direct means so
mathematically how can we compute this
problem any day in order to see that we
need to take a look at how this problem
unit is in computing so first let's take
a look at the transition matrix here and
this is just a matrix with values
indicating how likely when the random
sufferer will go from one page to
another
so it's role stands for a starting page
for example rule one would indicate the
probability of going to any other four
pages from B 1 and here we see there are
only none two nonzero entries which is a
one over two and a half so this is
because if you look at the graph he was
pointing to d3 and d4
there's no Nik from p1 to d1 stuff 42 so
we've got zeros for the first two
columns and 25 for e3 and default in
general the element in this matrix M sub
IJ is the probability of going from di
to DJ and obviously for each rule the
values should sum to 1 because the
surfer would have to go to press
one of these other pages right so this
is the transition matrix now how can we
compute the probability of a surfer
visiting a page well if you would look
at the the surf model then basically we
can compute the probability of reaching
a page as follows so here on the left
hand side you see it's the probability
of visiting page DJ at time t plus 1 so
it's the next time point on the right
hand side you can see the equation
involves the probability of at page D I
at time T so you can see the subscript
index P here and that indicates that's
the probability that the surfer was at a
document that at time T so and the
equation basically captures the two
possibilities of reaching a DJ at the
time T plus 1 what are these two
possibilities but one is through random
surfing and one is through following an
Inc as we just explained so the first
part captures the probability that the
random surfer would reach this page by
following a link and you can see the
random surfer chooses this strategy it
was probably in a 1 minus alpha as we
assumed and so there is a factor of 1
minus alpha here but the main part is
really the sum over all the possible
pages that the surfer could have been at
time t I there were any pages so it's a
sum over all the possible in pages
inside the Sun it's a product of two
probabilities one is the probability
that the sufferer was at t I at time T
that's P sub T of D I the other is the
transition probability from TI to
J and so in order to reach this DJ page
the surfer must the first be at the I at
time T and then also would have to
follow the link to go from the I to DJ
so the probability is the probability of
being at the I at time T multiplied by
the probability of going from that page
to the target page DJ here the second
part is a similar son the only
difference is that now the transition
probability is a uniform transition
probability 1 over N and this part
captures two the probability of reaching
this page through random jumping
right so the form is exactly the same
and in this also allows us to see why
page rank essentially assumed the
smoothing of the transition matrix if
you think about this 1 over N as coming
from another transition matrix that has
all the elements being 1 over n the
uniform matrix then you can see very
clearly essentially we can merge the two
parts because they are of the same form
we can imagine there's a different
matrix that's a combination of this M
and that uniform matrix where every
element is 1 over m and in this sense
page rank uses this idea of smoothing
and ensuring that there is no zero entry
in such a transition matrix now of
course this is a time dependent
calculation of the probabilities now we
can imagine if one computer average of
probabilities that every two
probabilities properly with the satisfy
this equation without considering the
time index so let's drop the time index
and just assume that they would be equal
now this would give us n equations
because for each page we have such a
question and if you look at that what
variables we have in these equations
there are also precisely n variables
right so this basic
that means we now have a system of n
equations with n variables and these are
linear equations so basically now the
problem boys done to solve this system
of equations and here I also show the
the equations in the matrix form
it's the laptop in here equals a matrix
or the transpose of the matrix here and
multiplied by the vector again now if
you still remember some knowledge that
we've learned from linear algebra and
then you will realize this is precisely
the equation for item vector right when
you multiply the matrix by this vector
you get the same value as this vector
and this can be solved by using
iterative algorithm so the questions
here on the back are basically taken
from the previous slide so you see the
relationship between the the patrons
force of different pages and in this
iterative approach or power proach we
simply start with randomly initialize
the vector P and then we repeatedly just
updated this P by multiplying the matrix
here by this P vector so I also show a
concrete example here so you can see
this now if we assume after this point
to then with the example that we show
here on this slide we have the original
transition matrix here that in row that
encodes the graph the actual links and
we have this smoothing transition matrix
uniform transition matrix representing
random jamming and we can combine them
together with the linear interpolation
to form another matrix that would be
like
so essentially we can imagine now the
web it looks like this can be captured
by that and there are virtual links
between all the pages now so the
PageRank algorithm would just initialize
the p-vector first and then just
computer the updating of this P vector
by using this matrix multiplication now
if you rewrite this matrix model
multiplication in terms of just
individual equations you will see this
and this is basically the updating
formula for this particular pages and
page rank score so you can also see you
know if you want to compute the value of
this updated score 41 in basically
multiply this rule right by this column
and we take the dot product of the two I
and that would give us the value for
this value so this is how we updated the
vector we start with some initial values
for these guys right for for these and
then we just revised the scores we
generate a new set of scores and the
updating formula is this one so we just
repeatedly apply this and here it
converts and when the matrix is like
this where there is no zero values and
it can be guaranteed to convert it and
at that point that we will just have the
page rank scores for all the pages now
we typically set the initial values just
to one over N so interestingly this
updating formula can be also interpreted
as propagating scores over the graph now
can you see why or if you look at this
formula and then compare that with this
graph and can you imagine how we might
be able to interpret this as essentially
propagating scores over the graph I hope
you will see that indeed we can imagine
we have values initialized on each of
these pages
right so we can have values here let's
say that's a 1 over 4 for each and then
we're going to use this metrics to
update this discourse and if you look at
the equation here this one basically
we're going to combine the scores of the
pages that post-party would lead through
reaching this page so we'll look at all
the pages that are pointing to this page
and then combined their scores and
propagated the score the sum of the
scores to this document d1 so we look at
the the scores that represented the
probability that the random surfer would
be visiting the other pages before it
reaches the d1 and then just do the
publication to simulate the probability
of reaching this this page d1 so there
are two interpretations you know one is
just the matrix multiplication and we
repeatedly multiply the vector by this
matrix but the other is to just think of
it as propagating the scores repeatedly
on the web so in practice the
computation of PageRank score is
actually efficient because the matrix is
a sparse and there are some ways to
transform the the question so that you
avoid actually literary computing the
values for all those elements sometimes
you may also normalize the equation and
that will give you a somewhat different
form of the equation but then the
ranking of pages would not change the
results with this potential problem of
zero out link problem in that case if
the page does not have any out link then
the probability of these pages would not
something 1 basically the probability of
reaching the next 50 from this page was
not some one mainly because we have lost
some probability mass when we assume
there's some probability that the server
will try to follow the links but then
there's no link to follow
and one possible solution is simply to
use a page specific attemping factor and
that could easily fix this basically
that's to say alpha would be 1.0 for
page with no out earning in that case
the server would just have to randomly
jump to another page instead of trying
to follow a link so there are many
extensions of PageRank one extension is
to the topic specific page rank note
that the page rank doesn't really use
the query information I so so we can
make page rank a very specific however
so for example in the top specific page
rank we can simply assume when the
surfer is bored the server is not going
to randomly jambo to anybody on the web
instead it's going to chamber to only
those pages that are relevant to a query
for example if the query is about the
sports then we could assume that when
it's doing random jumping it's going to
randomly jump to a sports page by doing
this then we can bias a page rank
through topic line sports and then if
you know the current query is about
disposal and you can use this
specialized to page rank score to bring
the documents that would be better than
if you use a generic page rank or page
rank is also general algorithm that can
be used in many other applications for
network analysis particularly for
example social networks you can imagine
if you compute the page rank scores for
a social network where link might
indicate the friendship relation you
will get some meaningful scores for
people
you